1. at least one variant of Breakout that you thought was interesting and what was interesting about it

Pinball Breakout. It's interesting that the creators combined pinball and breakout. The acceleration effect and the collision effect were great. The creators also added the a fading trace for the bouncer, which creates a better user experience.

2. Levels

    1st Level: 4 rows * 10 columns; bouncer has slow speed; each row has different colors; paddle can catch the ball
    2nd Level: 5 rows * 10 columns; bouncer has normal speed; each row has different colors; paddle can catch the ball
    3rd Level: 6 rows * 10 columns; bouncer has fast speed; each row has different colors; paddle can catch the ball
    4th Level: 4 rows * 10 columns; bouncer has slow speed; each row has different colors
    5th Level: 5 rows * 10 columns; bouncer has normal speed; each row has different colors
    6th Level: 6 rows * 10 columns; bouncer has fast speed; each row has different colors


3. Blocks

    (three types of blocks have different colors)
    1. Hard Block (1 point; goes away after 3 hits)
    2. Medium Block (1 point; goes away after 2 hits)
    3. Soft Block (1 point; goes away after 1 hit; certain probability of dropping power-ups)

4. Paddle

    1. Left/right quarter: bounce to where the ball come from. Middle half: bounce normally (press cheat key "N" to disable)
    2. Catch the ball (for the first 3 levels. disabled for the next 3 levels)
    3. Can move across left and right edge of the screen

5. Power-ups

    1. Paddle Magnifier (only magnify by a little bit)
    2. Bouncer Magnifier (only magnify by a little bit)
    3. Bouncer Replicator (make one bouncer into three)

6. Status display

    Level: ?/9, Lives ?/3, Scores **

7. Splash screen

    A welcome page explaining the rules.

8. Summary page

    When the player win/fail, show a summary page and ask to user to restart. It's substantial because it keeps the player wanting to play more.

9. Cheat keys

    1. press "L" increases the number of lives
    2. press "E" enlarges the ball
    3. press "1/2/3/4/5/6" to jump to the certain level
    4. press "R" to restart the ball and the paddle
    5. press "N" to make the whole paddle bounce normally

10. something extra you intend to add and why you think it is a substantial addition

    Knife falling from the top. It is substantial because it makes the game harder. Once the knife hits the paddle, the player will lose one life.
